---
excerpt: In this guide you will setup your first application with Spark.
---

# Getting Started with Spark

## Prerequisites

* PHP >= 5.4.0

## Install

Invoke this command in a terminal:

    % curl -O "http://chh.github.com/spark/spark.phar" && chmod a+x spark.phar

You now should have a file named `spark.phar` in your current working
directory.

## Your First Application

Fire up your terminal and enter this command:

    % php spark.phar create Blog

You should see something like "Creating Application Blog in /Blog". You
now can go and grab some coffee, while everything that's needed to run
your application is installed.

Go into the application directory and start a development server:

    % cd MyApp
    % ./vendor/bin/spark server

Then open <http://localhost:3000> in your browser, you should see "Hello
World" in big letters.

### How to make the app do something (barely) useful

Controllers make your application do things when someone views it in
their browser. Controllers go into the directory `app/controllers/`, 
and are best generated by the `generate controller` command:

    % ./vendor/bin/spark generate controller user

If you open up `app/controllers/MyApp/UserController.php`
you should see this:

    <?php

    namespace MyApp;

    class UserController
    {
        function indexAction()
        {
        }
    }

Each controller consists of actions. Each action is a public method of
the controller class, and ends with "Action".

The HTML goes into a "View". The view's file name gets taken from the
controller and action name. For example for the "index" action in the 
"UserController" the view "user/index.phtml" gets used.

Put this into `app/views/user/index.phtml`:

    <h1>Hello World <?= $this->name ?>!</h1>

The view has access to each property of the controller class. This
allows you to pass variables from the controller to the view. Also add
the parameter `name` to the method, we will need it later.

    <?php

    namespace MyApp;

    class UserController
    {
        function indexAction($name)
        {
            $this->name = $name;
        }
    }

The last part of getting our controller to do something (remotely)
useful, is to add a route. A Route connects a URI to a controller and
action. Routes are configured in `config/routes.php`.

This will do for now:

    $routes->match('/user/{name}', 'user#index');

That thing within the curly braces is a variable, which gets extracted
from the URI and then gets assigned the name `name`. We've previously
declared that our action needs an argument `name`, so Spark figures this
out and passes the route variable along to the action.

Last but not least, we assign the controller and action to the route.
This is done with `$controller#$action`. Controller names are converted
from `under_score` to `UnderScore` and then suffixed with `Controller`.
So `user` gets transformed to `UserController`.

If you open <http://localhost:3000/user/John%20Doe> in your browser you
should see "Hello World John Doe!" in big letters.

_Congratulations! You've created your first app with Spark!_

